Hello and welcome back to the artificial intelligence and master class in today's tutorial we're going
to talk about the variational out and coder's.
Now if you've already done the tutorials on normal or in kowtows you will find that variational our
callers are extremely simple.
So let's have a look here we've got our standard audio encoder and as we discussed previously what we're
doing here is we're taking the inputs or the input vector we're mapping it onto this vector is here
which is also called the latent vector.
And from here we are extracting our output so this is called encoding.
And this is called Decoding and this is called the latent vector also called the bottleneck in our callers.
And what this allows us to do is it allows us to compress our inputs and then decompress them more here.
So Autard Coras one use case for an Kodos is compression.
You can compress images audio video files and other files in such a way.
And as we also discussed and our encoder is a self supervised type of deploring algorithm where the
way we train it is we compare our output to the original input and we try to make sure that they match
up as close as possible.
Now that's how it started out in coater what we're going to do here is we're going to make some slight
changes to how this is illustrated just to give us more room on this image so we can move things around
and add some new components.
So there we go.
This is exactly the same Otto and coater is just presented illustrate a different way so we don't have
lots of connections here and lots of nos we just have one arrow on each side just to give us some more
room.
But effectively this is exactly the same thing as we have here.
So this on normal or quarter.
Now what is the difference between a normal on Ann Coulter and a variational.
Well in a variational in color we want to add some took a subsidiary here.
So we want to add some randomness to this latent vector.
And basically what that means is we're not going to hear here what we're doing right now is we're taking
our inputs and we're mapping them onto our lakes and vector in a variational encoder.
We're going to take all inputs and we're going to map them onto a distribution and that will allow us
to have randomness or sagacity in a latent vector and reconstruct many different environments or have
some randomness every time we decodes the spectrum.
So let's have a look how we're going to do that.
All we need to do is rather than mapping straight to the latent vector we're going to first map our
inputs onto two vectors one of them is going to be the mean vector.
So that's the mean of our stand of our distribution.
And then we get to have the standard deviation vector.
So this is going to be these are great to be the standard deviations of our distribution.
The means that here standardization is that here and then from these two vectors we're going to sample
our latent vector every single time.
So this is gold.
The sampled latent vector and as you can see after this is all trained we're going to be able to have
a slightly varying latent back to every single time we generated and every single time we decode allowing
us to achieve that 2:54 that we're looking for.
So that's variational auto encoders in a nutshell very simple concept.
After once you know what how auto encoders work this step towards variational is very simple.
Effectivity instead of mapping onto a layout and back to straight away we're mapping onto a mean vector
to stand division that we're sampling the latent vector and in essence turns out that we are mapping
our inputs onto a distribution from which we sample in order to then proceed with the decoding.
So that's a very shallow kowtows.
In short if you'd like to read more about them you get a bit more of a feel for the intuition.
It is a wonderful article on medium is called intuitive understanding variational out and courters by
your home Shafqat.
And we've got the link here you'll also find the link in the notes for this course.
So go.
Hope you enjoyed today the Tauriel and I look forward to seeing you back here next on.
Until then enjoy AI.